$3.1 Billion Owed by FTC to 50 Creditors.

FTX has 10 large creditors, with the largest being owed about $226 million. Across the 10 largest creditors FTX owes just shy off %1.5 billion

According to a filing in a US bankruptcy court, FTX, the fraudulent cryptocurrency exchange, has tangled up its 50 biggest creditors with $3.1 billion in total debts 

FTX and the company's' affiliates have filed for bankruptcy on 11th of November. It is estimated the fall of FTX has cause one million creditors to have lost their investment, though this is yet to be confirmed due to the poor basic record keeping not practiced by FTX.

FTX on it's own has sent the crypto market down a spiral. This unprecedented event has effected not only the markets, investors but also the founder himself. It is estimated, Sam Bankman-Fried value has been wiped out, from a gleaming $15 billion to virtually nothing.

After being exposed on their false claims regarding solvency by their closes competition, a surge of panic and withdrawals has plummeted their value. Their claims of possessing assets worth of billions of dollars were in fact a web of lies and mismanagement.

By hiring investment bank Perella Weinberg Partners, FTX sought to review their assets in preparation for the sale or reorganization of parts of their business entities.

On November 22nd, FTX's first-day motions hearing is set before a US bankruptcy judge, hence the taking over of FTX by bankruptcy experts.

Further unfortunate news from the downfall of FTX were the stolen cryptocurrency that was detected transferred to other exchanges. Through the bankruptcy court, FTX has asked the other exchanges to help return those stolen cryptocurrencies. The amount of the cryptocurrency stolen is to be estimated at $270 million.

