The Moments Leading To FTX Fall From Grace

Even though Bankman-Fried had been warned repeatedly by his staff, he ignored their warnings and tried desperately to fight. He couldn't see that FTX was doomed, no matter what he did.

Sam Bankman-Fried communicated the news of FTX's filling for bankruptcy through Twitter. This shocking event happened on the November 11th.

Sam Bankman-Fried had attempted to address the situation though the reality was far from being addressed by his capabilities. Group of FTX lawyers and executives finally took action by attempting to remove Bankman-Fried as their CEO and urged the other top executives to file for bankruptcy. Defiantly Sam disregarded the apparent warnings to refused to step down, utterly determine and convinced there were still ways to save the company, despite all the contradictory data.

“The exchanges must be halted immediately,” Ryne Miller, a top FTX lawyer, wrote in an email to Bankman-Fried and other staff Nov. 10. “The founding team is not currently in a cooperative posture.”

Eventually, Bankman-Fried stepped down as FTX's chief executive, allowing the company to file for bankruptcy. The New York Times stated they have gained access to numerous pages of internal emails and texts. These offered a detailed look at last days of FTX, a flurry of messages that indicated one thing, mounting content towards Sam and his defiance.

In the court documents, Bankman-Fried seemed irrationally defiant on his analysis of FTX's position, where it showed his misplaced confidence of powering through this crisis. Prior to filling for bankruptcy, Sam insisted on raising new fundings and just recently he shared his regrets of agreeing to stepping down and taking the advice of his lawyers.

The New York Times spoke to insiders in order to learn how a small group of lawyers and executives dealt with Bankman-Fried, who was apparently difficult to get through to. The company struggled with finding investors during the process, but Miller sent a text to top staff describing the prospect of a funding round as “a 0% chance.”

The exchange between Miller and Bankman-Fried dragged on into the early hours of Nov. 11, where Miller urged Bankman-Fried to sign papers so that the company could file for bankruptcy.

“Please can you sign the document,” he wrote at 2:29 a.m.

FTX's downfall will be recorded as one the worst event in cryptocurrency history. Bankman-Fried was a widely known individual in the industry, from building connections through various walks of life, investing in other crypto firms to lobbying Washington, influencing and shaping future legislation.

Now by his hand, the crypto industry basically is starting from scratch to build reputation that is in tatters. This though is the least pressing matter, hundreds of thousands of people who stored their funds on FTX are due their investments. FTX's most recent estimate, owes $8 billion to creditors. The unfolding of other crypto firms, who has invested in or has been invested by are in a precarious situation. One such company was BlockFi who filed for bankruptcy citing FTX's disintegration as it's cause.

Prosecutors at the Justice Department are now investigating FTX for potential criminal charge for lending investor funds to the hedge fund, Alameda Research. An entity that Bankman-Fried happened to also own. FTX's new chief executive has shared condemning critiques to Bankman-Fried, calling his tenure as CEO a "complete failure of corporate control".

Bankman-Fried declined to comment on the exchange he had with FTX's top lawyers and executives prior to bankruptcy. Ever still defiant, even after FTX's fall, there were numerous investors that were willing to support him. He declined to name any of them.

