Mastercard's Crypto Secure Combats Crypto Fraud

Mastercard has announced its latest security service, Crypto Secure, designed to assist with risk management and bring additional trust and security to the digital world.

The Mastercard press release reads, “Crypto Secure combines insights and technology from CipherTrace with proprietary information to help card issuers stay compliant with the complex regulatory landscape of the digital assets sector.”

The new platform will help banks identify and prevent fraud on cryptocurrency merchant platforms.

“The platform allows [card issuers] to better assess the risk profile of crypto exchanges or other providers, collectively known as Virtual Asset Service Providers (VASPs), and decide which purchases of cryptocurrency to approve,” Mastercard said.

Instead of taking a one-size-fits-all approach, if merchants transact with crypto issuers, this platform will allow companies to individually identify transactions and reject them on an individual basis. This could potentially restrict legitimate transactions.

Using artificial intelligence, blockchain data, and public records on cryptocurrency transactions, Mastercard new platform helps to determine the risks associated with crypto exchanges. A similar service already exists for fiat currency transactions to help banks deal with these.

Mastercard Cyber and Intelligence president Ajay Bhalla says that the main goal of the new Mastercard product is to help protect card issuers and users.

“Crypto Secure will provide card issuers with a platform that allows them access to insights which will improve the safety of crypto purchases, increasing consumer confidence and creating the same trust they expect when paying with Mastercard,” Bhalla said. “The idea is that the kind of trust we provide for digital commerce transactions, we want to be able to provide the same kind of trust to digital asset transactions for consumers, banks and merchants.”

The platform will allow issuers to: accurately identify the crypto exchanges; measure transaction approvals and declines; understand, at a portfolio level, their exposure to crypto risk through a single score; and access a benchmark rating for comparison to a peer group of financial institutions.

An easy-to-understand colored risk rating will be provided for each crypto merchant. Each color represents the level of risk associated with that merchant.

This new service is an important step to help further the integration of digital assets into mainstream financial services, so that crypto holders can use their assets in every aspect of life.

“Crypto Secure is the latest step in Mastercard’s broader digital assets strategy, which helps bridge the gap between traditional finance and the world of crypto, and enables individuals to seamlessly spend funds from their crypto accounts in everyday transactions,” Mastercard said.

