FTX Collapse Will Not Effect F1

Zak Brown, McLaren boss, is confident F1 in general will not be effected by the spectacular fall of FTX.

The recent bankruptcy of FTX sent panic through the crypto markets, which eventually had an impact on various F1 teams.

Of all the teams on the grid, eight have sponsorship deals with cryptocurrency firms. With Mercedes being on of them. The governing body itself, F1 has a major sponsorship with the  crypto exchange Crypto.com.

Mercedes-Benz has suspended their sponsorship agreement with FTX following the troubling events. This act happen on the eve of the Brazilian Grand Prix which also prompted Mercedes all FTX's logos from their car and assets.

FTX's implosion had a direct impact with multitude of other companies that had loans or financial arrangements with them. This fact worried many that it would eventually trigger a domino effect cascading onto other crypto exchanges.

The McLaren boss despite all the negative events that have unfolded is still upbeat and confident on the future of crypto.

McLaren who themselves has just recently entered a partnership with the exchange OKX are confident and has no doubts with their new partner.

“We're very comfortable with OKX, and we did a tremendous amount of due diligence,” said Brown.

“We had a choice on which partner to go with, because we had a bunch of approaches, so we believe we've got the best partner in the business. We're well aware of their back end, their reserves, the deposits, how they operate. So I'm very comfortable there.”

Quoted by Motorsport.com on whether there will be a wider impact of the cryptocurrency market on F1, Brown replied : “The FTX [situation] certainly seems to be a complete mess.

“I kind of liken it to the Internet when it got started. You had lots of Internet companies. Lots didn't make it, but then companies like Amazon came out pretty good.

“I think that'll be the same with crypto and blockchain. You had so many people rush towards it, then at the end you'll have a small number of players - but I don't know what that number is going to be.”

“Everyone that I've spoken within the financial industry is very bullish on crypto and blockchain as a financial instrument moving forward. And it's just going to be a case of who are going to be the big players in the space. We're convinced OKX is going to be one of them and they've been rock solid with us.”

He further shares his views on questions regarding going into long-term partnerships with crypto base companies, as a situation very similar to that of other new industries who are just entering F1.

“I think every time there's been a shift in the sport, there's, ‘oh my, what's going to happen when the tobacco money leaves the sport? What happens when this manufacturer leaves the sport?

“But the sport is so strong that it seems always to be someone there to step in. So it would be unfortunate if there's a lot of impact, but I think the sport is just fine.”

