Blockchain's Impact on the Forex Market

6.6 Billion US Dollars is traded every day in the FX space. It's a huge global marketplace.

The Forex market has a large global value of $1.934 quadrillion and includes more than 170 currencies that are available for individuals to trade.

The way we trade forex has changed since the digital revolution that has brought online brokerages. Online forex brokers now enable investors to take control and plan, execute, and manage their orders through one interface. Most recently, blockchain technology has changed the marketplace by providing significant advantages to traders.

The following are how blockchain will further change and provide increasing benefits for traders:

Increasing Transactions Speeds and Reduced Trading Fees

Robots are becoming more and more popular in the trading world, and with them come increased transaction speeds. In fact, blockchain's distributed ledger technology has the potential to reduce these speeds even further.

This can have the potential to reduce forex transaction fees. Brokers, central banks and other foreign exchange transaction network participants may impose these at the point of exchange.

All this is made possible for blockchain operates without a central point of control. This means that we're no longer required to rely on brokers or middlemen who grant access to certain information; this also applies to other industries. With blockchain, the power is put back in the hands of the users.

One of the key benefits of blockchain is that there's no central authority in charge of processing transactions. Individual protocols and consensus mechanisms are used to select network validators, which leads to much faster transaction speeds.

Banks and leading financial institutions are trying to reduce transaction costs by adopting blockchain, a decentralized transaction record that is eliminating the need for third-party validation. Platforms like Ripple (which currently allows payment from one currency to another) make it possible to easily exchange fiat currencies.

Blockchain technology is opening the door for new possibilities in trading and financing. It could even change how we trade FX across the globe: with a peer-to-peer platform, it would be possible for more people to access competitive transaction fees and optimize profits.

Introducing Transparent Forex Trading

The FX market has a major issue with regulation, which is leading to significant trust and transparency issues.

Blockchain technology removes the need for a centralized point of power and replaces it with decentralized networks. That centralization is responsible for many errors, including a lack of transparency and immutability in records.

Blockchain is the term used to refer to a distributed ledger system that provides an online, decentralized database for data. This technology cannot be altered by anybody once it's been completed, and every single transaction can be traced and recorded online.

Blockchain also extends beyond transactions and provides opportunities to trade currency quotes, regulations and more. The process is completely transparent, creating a superior regulatory framework for traders.

If we think about this for a second, the blockchain is going to make it so that the foreign exchange industry can create its own decentralized database over time. This will eliminate the risk of fraud and make it significantly easier to identify instances of market manipulation.

Enhancing Trader Security

When you use forex trading techniques, it's important to carefully manage leverage and never bet more than you can afford to lose. This way, you'll be able to cope with the liquid marketplace.

In this financial model, currencies are traded with little to no effect on asset prices. This offers huge benefits to investors, but there are also many vulnerabilities.

It's easy for cybercrime to negatively affect assets, leading to sizeable security risks. Furthermore, the financial sector is vulnerable to manipulation of trading accounts, which poses obvious opportunities for rogue traders or hackers posing as online investors.

Blockchain could help to solve these problems, using the underlying technology to encrypt sensitive data using encryption. Each block of information consists of a unique hash number that is "linked" to the previous block.

This creates a secure system that can't be hacked which can be built on top of the industry standard 128-bit SSL encryption which will allow for traders to trade at all times.

Blockchain also allows for greater anonymity, which means your personal, sensitive information can't be connected to transactions. You can use this information without the risk of being discovered or having anyone follow you through your transactions.

Although the blockchain technology is still relatively new, it has already been applied to millions of transactions. There's no doubt that it offers superior security than traditional legacy systems.

