FTX Collapse Shows that CeFi must adopt DeFi's Transparency

1inch Networks cofounder, Sergej Kunz, sees the struggles in CeFi as a chance for DeFi to stake their claim. While on the other side of the isle, Justin Sun says CeFi needs to adopt DeFi's transparency.

In a panel discussion on Tuesday at the Philippine Blockchain Week event, Tron founder Justin Sun said that centralized exchanges must adopt transparency measures representative of decentralized finance in order to restore public trust.

The FTX.com epic crash has equally resulted in a significant lost of faith from the public and investors towards the general crypto industry. 

News about a potential cryptocurrency exchange withdrawal issue has caused many exchanges to release proofs of funds, in order to reassure its investors that the exchange is taking security and liquidity seriously.

Recently, digital asset holders have been pulling out of exchanges at a rapid pace. IntoTheBlock's data on Bitcoin withdrawals from CEXs topped 2.48 billion USD Monday, the highest single-day withdrawal. A direct effect of the lost of trust due to the scandalous downfall of FTX.

One reason for the rise in crypto withdrawal volumes is that investors are starting to see the value in self-custody. They are waiting to withdraw their coins so they can store them themselves, or use them to purchase DeFi products.

"People have been thinking about self-custody wallets and trying them out," Sergej Kunz, cofounder of 1inch Network said during a panel discussion with Justin Sun and Joel Flynn. He later added, "We've seen huge sales of Ledgers and Trezors."

With the FTX implosion, centralized platforms are facing public scrutiny. This has paved an opportunity for Decentralized Finance, which offers more transparency and user control.

“One of the reasons we trust DeFi is because most of the information is transparent to customers,” said Sun.

Despite the apparent benefits, even a decentralized finance purist like Kunz will admit that there are still some security challenges associated with these systems.

The blockchain forensics firm, Chanalysis, reports that $3.12 billion worth of digital assets have been stolen from online services in 125 DeFi hacks this year. The company says the 2022 projections are set to become a yearly hacking record for the cryptocurrency industry.

A decentralized application that allows investors to use a representation of their crypto assets on different blockchains, cross-chain bridges, were one of the top security risks in 2022. 70% of stolen digital assets this year came from cross-chain exploits, that's as of August according to Chainalysis estimates.

Kunz believes that DEXs are the "next evolution of the financial system."

