Uncontrolled Lavish FTX Culture Early Warnings of Collapse

Prior to the epic collapse of FTX, Sam Bankman-Fried's and the founder circle splurged themselves and employees with lavish perks.

One such uncontrolled spending spree was during the relocation of FTX's headquarters to the Bahamas. Discovering that Amazon did not have deliver to this region, it was decided to formulate a private deal with an undisclosed air carrier to specifically deliver any orders by FTX.

Only through interviews with former FTX employees, a glimpse of the irresponsible use of funds, such as private air mail service, by Sam Bankman-Fried was exposed to the general public.

Whereas prior to bankruptcy, in the public eye, Sam Bankman-Fried touted himself as a humble champion of humanity by pledging his billions to donation over his lifetime. In reality it was a mere façade, hiding the public from all his money splurging ways.

Uncontrollable spending that overtook the whole working environment, from their employee's to their circle of senior executives whom splashed millions on travelling, sport sponsorship deals to luxurious homes.

In the Delaware bankruptcy case, it was made public that lack of any internal controls that are needed by any large financial company meant spending was not accounted responsibly.

“[It was] kids leading kids,” said one former employee. “The entire operation was idiotically inefficient, but equally mesmerizing,” they added. “I had never witnessed so much money in my life. I don’t think anybody had, including SBF.”

Irresponsible internal spending permeated into their business development strategies which would include securing the naming rights of Miami's basketball stadium. A deal that would cost them $135 million.

While the senior management team was occupied with a big Miami deal, some of the staff weren't sure that it would bring in new clients and be worthwhile. "They weren't overseeing how much return we were getting. There wasn't any follow-up once you got the deal," said one former employee involved in marketing.

Bankman-Fried and the company's top executives disregarded concerns from their employees with marketing experience, signing off hundreds of millions on sponsorships.

“It just kinda went crazy,” the employee said. “If Sam said OK, it was good to go. Regardless of the amount.”

"Never seen such a complete failure of corporate controls." , where the words of the newly appointed FTX chief executive, John Ray.

The business was operated without having the appropriate controls in place to manage its money. John Ray further commented that the company had bought personal items and homes for FTX employees and advisers.

“There does not appear to be documentation for certain of these transactions . . . and certain real estate was recorded in the personal name of these employees and advisers,” Ray added.

You can't fathom how disorganized the office is without listening to filings. It mentions employees of the FTX Group submitted payment requests for salaries and expenses through an online chat platform where supervisors signed off on them by responding with custom emojis.

Such misuse of funds extended to findings where staggering loans where made to their executives. Alameda Research loaned $1 billion to Bankman-Fried himself, $543 million to Nishad Singh, head of engineering and $55 million to Ryan Salame, co-chief executive of FTX Digital Markets.

