Despite Crpyto Crisis, Education The Young On Blockchain Goes On

As cryptocurrency prices fluctuate and uncertainty about the future prevails, some entities are seeking to capitalize on the confusion by preparing the future with short-term courses and online camps on the topics of crypto and blockchain.

A training institute based in Goa, BrightCHAMPS has that very vision in mind. Their curriculum teaches children on cryptocurrencies and blockchain and add to that basics of financial management. Hence preparing these children for the actual industry situation.

Building For The Future

FTX's downfall has been headlining discussion topics all around the world. A catalyst of chaos that resulted in FTX owing $8 billion to creditors and having a cascading effect throughout the crypto industry.

Prior to this, was the equally shocking collapse of the stablecoin TerraUSD and it's coin counterpart Luna. Billions was lost and an uproar to file legal charges to it's founder followed. Similar to that of FTX, the mismanagement and deceiving nature of the founder betrayed the terminology stable coin.

Despite one of the most brutally condemning year that crypto has faced, there are those who still believes in the fundamentals. There are institutes who believe the driving technology behind crypto and blockchain should be offered the future, children.

These institutes are focused on the long haul, which means investing in courses like Cryptocurrency and Blockchain Technology. They want to help students from the youngest age possible learn about these cutting-edge technologies so that they can be prepared for what awaits them in the future.

BrightCHAMPS in Goa, India, has a comprehensive curriculum that covers blockchain and cryptocurrencies, as well as banking and Decentralized Finance. The school even teaches students about the latest innovations in finance, such as Non-Fungible Tokens (NFTs) where they train students as young as five up to 15 years old.

It offers three courses — beginner, foundation and certification. The foundation course, which has a fee of Rs 64,999, has 60 classes on cryptocurrency, equity and early entrepreneurship. The certification course, with a fee of Rs 1,39,000, has 150 sessions on investing, advanced cryptocurrency, hands-on entrepreneurship and a deep dive into various case studies.

An interesting addition

Blockchain technology is evolving, and it can seem difficult to understand at first. But, because the educational institutes customize their one-on-one approach for each student in the program, it is hope they will be able to retain their attention throughout. They also use global house events and hackathons to help make sure they're always engaged and continuously learn something new.

There is also a metaverse project called ClassAvatar which believes that even blockchain will be taught in a immersive and gamified state. A natural progression from in-person discussions and online sessions.

Is the future all about crypto jobs?

Thanks to the vision and initiatives of their parent,  these children who are undergoing these courses very early in their development would have a clear advantage should they decide later on to go into a career involving crypto, blockchain or non-fungible tokens. These jobs are expected to expand rapidly if the crypto world can recover from its current state and become more mature and stable.

With talent in cryptocurrencies, blockchain and non-fungible tokens highly sought after in the tech industry, the number of job listings has exploded over the past year. Industry insiders predict that this trend will only continue in the future - and people from India will be very much in demand.

The Indian tech industry employs 75,000 blockchain professionals. Its share of the global Web3 talent pool is 11%. This makes it the 3rd most important pool of Web3 talent in the world. The report from NASSCOM estimates that this talent pool will grow to over 120% in 1-2 years.

Founder and CEO of India Blockchain Alliance believes that with the rise of Web3 technologies, has also given rise to a new sector of the economy. This naturally also commands the need of a new type of talent.

