Polkadot's DOT Is No Longer A Security In An Announcement By Web3 Foundation

The Web3 Foundation recently announced a landmark achievement in their development of Web3.0: The native digital asset for Polkadot’s blockchain no longer qualifies as a security under SEC regulations. It's now just software.

The Web3 Foundation announcement mark its third year of engagement with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission’s (SEC) Strategic Hub for Financial Innovation (FinHub). This announcement marks the third year that the Foundation has responded to FinHub’s public invites to “come in and talk with us.”

The public invite at the time coincided with the Web3 Foundation launch of the Polkadot network in May 2020. Which concluded with the launch of parachains in the closing months 2021.

Web3 Foundation's mission is to advance the vision of Web 3.0 and they've been doing so by helping build the technology of decentralized web. They're based in Zug, Switzerland, and were established by Ethereum co-founder and former chief technology officer Dr. Gavin Wood.

This was a tense time for digital assets, and the legal climate was particularly inconsistent. Web3 Foundation first approached FinHub when the SEC filed its complaint against Telegram and the recently published Framework for “Investment Contract” Analysis of Digital Assets by FinHub. This came shortly after many other SEC enforcement actions and announcements, such as its 21A Report of Investigation: The DAO, Munchee cease-and-desist order, and Kik decision.

Daniel Schoenberger, Chief Legal Officer at Web3 Foundation, said: “The Framework suggested that nearly every digital asset offered and sold for fundraising purposes, initially, was highly likely to constitute a security when it was delivered to initial purchasers. Yet the Framework also contained a compliant path forward – one that would permit a digital asset initially offered and sold as a security to be re-evaluated at a later date. For purposes of U.S. federal securities laws, there was a possibility that it would no longer be a security. In other words, digital assets could morph.”

Over the past three years, the Web3 Foundation has met regularly with the SEC and attempted to find common ground and comply with U.S. federal securities laws, including with respect to the offer and sale, marketing and delivery of tokens as securities, and treatment of retail purchasers, which was largely in line with public companies.

“In the Web3 Foundation’s view, current offers and sales of DOT, the native token of the Polkadot blockchain, are not securities transactions. DOT is used for the purposes for which it was designed – among other things, to bid for and secure parachains and facilitate on-chain governance. Control of the Polkadot network has long been in the hands of DOT holders. Today, DOT is not a security. It is software,” added Mr. Schoenönberger.

