The Nigerian Goverment Hastening Education of Blockchain for 30,000 Citizens.

Over 30,000 Nigerians are set to take a blockchain training program thanks to the National Information Technology Development Agency. The agency's objective is to prepare participants to become solution providers in the upcoming Web 3.0 era.

Blockchain Is The Future

Nigeria plans to educate more than 30,000 people on blockchain technology. This training, conducted by the National Information Technology Development Agency (NITDA), will be used to accelerate adoption and make Nigeria a global leader in the field.

According to Radio Nigeria, directors of the Nigerian Industrial Trade and Development Agency (NITDA) announced that the agency is providing scholarships and encouraging Nigerians to attend training programs in an effort to allow more Nigerians to contribute to the new industry. With the end goal to ensure Nigerians indeed become solution providers in blockchain and it's surrounding ecosystem.

In the report, NITDA's training program is set to be delivered to learners from across Nigeria's 36 states. Those who complete the training will be given a chance to be part of a London incubation program or to have a further understanding and also experience Bitcoin Satoshi Vision (BSV) ecosystem.

Mohammed Jega, the co-founder of NITDA's blockchain partner, has stated his company's commitment to providing quality education and teaching participants hands-on skills to help them build real-life blockchain solutions.

