Argentina Created a National Blockchain Committee to Formulate Nationwide Strategy

The government of Argentina has declared a national blockchain committee to advise about the long-term viability of this tech and its use for state-level purposes. In the document drafted, Argentina highlights the importance and outlines several cases where blockchain is proving to be pivotal for digital transformation through the future of their country.

Argentina's new digital backbone: blockchain

Countries around the world are beginning to see the benefit of implementing blockchain technology into their public operations. The latest example is Argentina, which recently issued a national guideline regarding blockchain.

The document, presented on December 7, also creates a national blockchain committee, which will have the responsibility of "acting as an intermediary and facilitator in the blockchain ecosystem, promoting interoperability and a good government."

The Public Innovation Secretariat will form a committee comprised of other organizations who are interested in blockchain-based public policies and technical solutions. However, these other organizations that are called to be part of the committee are not detailed as part of the issued framework.

Topics Covered

The government's policy brings up many uses for blockchain technology in aiding state-exclusive functions, such as auditing and centralized public processes. The first area in which it is depicted to have an application is in auditing, given the large size and scope of some governmental structures. Blockchain can be used to fulfill two functions in this regard: 1) helping citizens see how the state is investing public funds, and 2) centralizing all of the public processes that take place using one structure.

The second area has to do with citizen identification. The Argentinian state believes blockchain could be useful in identifying criminals by preventing forgeries when issuing identification documents. Organizing a system around blockchain would give third parties simple ways of confirming the validity of these documents and help reduce bureaucratic obstacles.

Blockchain has already been used in this capacity. Buenos Aires's Tangoid system will be fully operative as of January under a digitization push by the city. The city also plans to run Ethereum nodes as an experiment, to examine the inner workings of the cryptocurrency for regulatory purposes when it becomes available.

