FinTech Mara Launches African Crypto Wallet

A new crypto project has been unveiled in Africa. Project Mara is backed by several prominent venture capitalists and angel investors in the industry, including Huobi Ventures, FTX-affiliated Alameda Research, and Coinbase Ventures.

Based in Nigeria, Mara is a digital financial ecosystem where the first deployment of their services are cryptocurrency wallets who has had a strong response from Nigerians.

Mara reached its $23 million fundraising goal and it already has a massive waitlist of over 3 million people. As the wallet developers, the next roll-out of their development phase would include expanding their wallet services to Ghana and Kenya.

Speaking of the African cryptocurrency market, according to Mara CEO and co-founder, Chi Nnadi, Mara was built specifically for money transfer services and the potential of further development into other financial products. This differentiation sets it apart from other global brokerages and exchanges.

One great service that the Mara wallet will offer is cryptocurrency brokerage services. This will let you buy, sell, and withdraw both fiat and crypto. The Mara wallet will also provide you with U.K.-based company documents which will allow you to access dollars, pounds, and euros to use to buy and sell crypto.

In addition to its straightforward functionality, the wallet app will include educational resources about cryptocurrencies and personal finance management. Users can access them whenever they want.

The Mara Foundation has partnered with a USD Coin issuer called Circle to launch an African initiative, aimed at promoting blockchain development throughout Africa.

Mara wants to bring affordable and accessible education to African developers by building this nonprofit foundation. In addition, the community will provide free resources in financial literacy, cryptocurrency, Web3, and blockchain education in many languages.

The team is developing their own proprietary solution to offer features that other blockchains has not yet. The Mara Chain is scheduled to be launched before the end of 2022, and it will include its own token to allow developers to build decentralized applications.

Another country that is investing in cryptocurrency adoption is the Central African Republic. Recently, they have launched their own crypto hub called Sango.

The goal of Project Sango is to help establish a healthy digital economy in the country by attracting businesses and boosting local economic development. It will also work to create global connections for the country, as it looks for opportunities in cross-border trading.

