Mastercard Start Path program adds 7 blockchain startups.

Mastercard, the second-largest payment processing company in the world, recently partnered with seven new blockchain start-ups through its Mastercard Start Path program. These partnerships will help Mastercard integrate blockchains into their business model.

As per a recent press release sent to Kitco Crypto, the new cohort of startups includes Singapore's crypto payments platform Digital Treasures Center, Abu Dhabi's crypto gateway provider Fasset, Colombia's stablecoin-focused firm Stable, and Dubai's blockchain-based media fintech TBTM (Take Back the Mic) Studios.

The program has also added a variety of U.S.-based projects, including a Web3-focused social payments system provider called Loot Bolt, a privacy startup called Quadrata, and a brand-oriented platform called Uptop.

“We’re welcoming a new cohort of startups to ease access to digital assets, build communities for creators and empower people to innovate for the future through Web3 technologies,” Mastercard said in its announcement. “The newest Start Path cohort will engage in growth-essential opportunities including technology collaboration, mentorship, access to channels and customers, and the opportunity to accelerate their digital asset innovations and expand into new markets.”

More than 350 startups from 40 different countries have participated in the Mastercard Start Path program. Started in 2014, this six-month accelerator program focuses on aiding startup companies with the expansion and commercialization of their products or services.

The previous students of the program who have gone on to succeed in the real world include Thought Machine, Zeta, and Razorpay.

Founded in 2021, Start Path Crypto provides seed and growth-stage companies in the crypto industry with specialized support. It's a three-month cryptocurrency accelerator program that offers coaching, capital, and networking opportunities to help you build a project from nothing into something great.

25 crypto-related startups have participated in the program, including GK8 which provides storage for cryptocurrency, Uphold which distributes digital currency to millions of people across 200 countries, and Emin Gün Sirer, Ava Labs CEO and founder.

“Fintechs play a major role in digital transformation by bringing fresh ideas, customization and greater choice for consumers and businesses,” the payment firm said. “From our experience innovating payments and building a global network, we believe it’s more likely that we’ll see a hybrid economy that combines the benefits of Web3 technology with existing financial infrastructure.”

During 2022, Mastercard has been increasing its efforts related to cryptocurrency and blockchain technology. Their newest initiative includes their Crypto Source program for financial institutions. This will allow them to offer customers secure crypto trading services.

