The conflicting fate of crpyto In The Middle East

There are two competing interests driving cryptocurrency adoption rates in the Middle East: Governments see the benefits of using cryptocurrencies to modernize markets and track financial activity, while privacy-conscious citizens see them as a way to avoid government oversight.

While many regulators have been wary of cryptocurrencies, Gulf State regulators want to work with crypto entrepreneurs. They want to integrate this new technology into mainstream financial markets.

On the other hand, the Middle East features authoritarian regimes, inflating currencies and sanctioned entities — conditions ripe for cryptocurrency. Cryptocurrency can be a great way to get around government controls of money.

The volume of crypto transactions has been growing faster in the Middle East than any other region in the world according to a report released last month by Chainalysis, an analytics firm. This is due to both kinds of uses.

“Bitcoin adoption is at an all-time high in the Mideast, but it is very quiet due to harsh government policies towards Bitcoiners,” said Fadi Elsalameen, a Palestinian anti-corruption activist and fellow at the American Security Project, a nonpartisan Washington think tank. “It is already here, it’s being used, and it’s unstoppable.” Elsalameen said he began using Bitcoin after the Palestinian Authority shut down his bank account in response to his criticisms of its leader, Mahmoud Abbas.

Other parts of the region have adopted this technology as well in an unauthorized manner.

The country with the worst inflation on Earth, Turkey, banned crypto payments last year, but it remains the largest market for crypto in the region. In Lebanon, where inflation is also sky high and the banking sector has broken down, there's a caveat: it's technically illegal to accept crypto for goods and services. But Bitcoin and Tether have become popular substitutes to the licit monetary system there.

According to Alex Gladstein, the chief strategy officer of the Human Rights Foundation, some women in Saudi Arabia are using Bitcoin as an alternative to having bank accounts which are subjected to male relatives supervision.

However, it seems like the Saudi government is finally warming up to blockchain technology. After initially shunning it, their neighbors Abu Dhabi, Dubai and Bahrain have also been working with crypto companies and even introducing new laws to accommodate the technology.

“These dictatorships in the Gulf have every reason to support crypto as long as they can control it.” Gladstein said.

The approach has largely been a hit with crypto executives. Changpeng Zhao, founder of Binance which is reportedly under investigation in the U.S. for possible money laundering violations, scoffed at the suggestion of crypto-skeptic economist Nouriel Roubini that Emirati authorities should eject him from the country. In fact, while he was here, his exchange won a new license from Abu Dhabi’s financial regulator.

“Where you see less trust in government you see more aggressive blockchain adoption, where you see more trust you see less,” said John D’Agostino, a senior adviser to Coinbase, at a panel of industry executives at the Milken summit on Friday morning. “At the risk of sounding obsequious to our kind hosts here, the exception is the U.A.E., in that you have a very trusted, respected government that is being extremely progressive about installing blockchain solutions at the government level.”

One example of this collaborative approach is Basil Al Askari, founder of Abu Dhabi-based crypto investment platform MidChains who mentions he often gets into arguments with other crypto moguls about his cooperative relationship with the state. Midchains is backed by Emirati sovereign wealth fund Mubadala and worked closely with the Financial Services Regulatory Authority of Abu Dhabi Global Market to win approvals before marketing his product.

In an interview with reporters, he said that many crypto entrepreneurs who ventured into illegal or gray areas first and asked questions later see his approach as too cautious. However, he believes regulating first and then trying to serve mass adoption through compliant institutions is the right way to go.

