JPMorgan trades tokenized cash deposits using Polygon, banking is going DeFi

This project is part of Project Guardian, a project initiated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS). The tokenization experiment completed trials for foreign exchange (FX) and the trading of government bonds, powered by crypto lending protocol Aave and decentralized exchange (DEX) Uniswap.

JPMorgan's Onyx, the bank's blockchain technology for wholesale payments, joined Singapore's DBS Bank, Japan's SBI Digital, Singapore Exchange's digital asset platform Marketnode and Temasek in the first phase of testing.

For FX transactions, Onyx successfully tokenized Singaporean dollar (SGD) deposits, as well as SBI Digital Assets tokenized Japanese yen (JPY) assets.

“[SGD] is a deposit token which is a general liability of JPM,” Ty Lobban, head of Onyx Digital Assets, tweeted, adding that the native token gives “stable on-chain value without the scalability issues of stablecoins.”

In the second trial, DBS and SBI Digital Assets traded against liquidity pools of tokenized government bonds with DBS tokenizing SGD currency and Singapore Government Securities bonds. SBI did the same for Japanese bonds and JPY currency.

JPMorgan is one of the banks leading the way when it comes to embracing blockchain technology, which maintains three private blockchains used regularly by its businesses and clients.

The bank’s Liink network of banks shares transaction data and related insights, while its Coin Systems network facilitates the transfer of the dollar and other fiat currencies over a blockchain. Its Onyx Digital Assets network enables the tokenization of traditional assets, such as US Treasurys and money-market products.

“We’ve long held the view that over time more, and more traditional finance will take place on public blockchains, provided there are solutions for key aspects like scalability and privacy,” Lobban told Blockworks in a statement.

Stani Kulechov, the CEO of Aave Companies, is excited about the precedent that this blockchain trade set for DeFi.

Added Kulechov: “Utilizing the Aave protocol to deploy a liquidity market on the Polygon mainnet for supplying and borrowing tokenized foreign exchange transactions…is the first time the world has seen a real world use case for institutional-grade DeFi protocols.”

Polygon was chosen for the trade because they wanted to use Ethereum and "needed low gas rates."

The team forked Aave Arc, a permissioned version of the popular DeFi lending protocol compliant with anti-money laundering regulations, and deployed a modified version to the Polygon network. This allowed the banks to set their own specialized transaction parameters.

Additionally, JPMorgan built on-chain verification of verifiable credentials (VC) to provide compliant access to Aave and other DeFi protocols. The aim was to eliminate DeFi front ends from needing to do know-your-customer (KYC) checks.

"On-chain VC verification is huge," according to Lobban, because "it brings composability to identity...bringing further standardization and portability to identity."

Banks are starting to accept public blockchains.

Banks are not new to permissionless chains; many traditional financial institutions have been exploring blockchain technology in order to improve efficiency.

The European Investment Bank (EIB) just launched a digital bond issuance on a blockchain platform, which will help it register and settle bonds in innovative ways. The new technology is a collaborative effort with Goldman Sachs, Santander, and Societe Generale.

This past April, Societe Generale issued the first security token on the Tezos public blockchain. Roughly two years earlier, Societe Generale issued 100 million euros worth of covered bonds as a security token on the Ethereum blockchain.

JPMorgan Chase hired an executive director of digital assets regulatory policy last month, despite CEO Jamie Dimon calling crypto tokens "decentralized Ponzi schemes" in congressional testimony in September.

The blockchain trade came after JPMorgan published a video late last month detailing their digital wallet that would allow users to control their digital identity and assets.

The company added in a disclaimer that the wallet is a “proof of concept” and that there is no guarantee it will be available.

Fidelity Digital Asset Management Head Chris Tyrer said during a panel at Blockworks’ Digital Asset Summit last month that banks have come around on crypto over the past year and are "the future access points" for the market.

The head of Credit Suisse's Blockchain Technology Center, Previn Singh, said that traditional finance and blockchain technology will eventually interweave.

