Dogecoin's price has fallen 9% as the cryptocurrency market goes red.

The cryptocurrency industry's largest meme-coin, Dogecoin, has taken a 9% tumble overnight.

DOGE is currently trading at around $0.088 following the latest drop from $0.105 just a week ago, reported CoinGecko. To put it in perspective, the token has fallen about 16% in just seven days – meaning that bearish forces are taking control of DOGE for now.

In the last 24 hours, Dogecoin generated the third-most liquidations of all currencies.

CoinGlass has reported a total of $6.34 million in DOGE liquidations from crypto exchange Binance. Roughly half (around $3,760,000) of those liquidations occured in the last 12 hours.

The losses accumulated have yet to eat away at the hefty gains earned at the end of November, following continued speculation that Elon Musk would incorporate Dogecoin into Twitter.

A recent presentation by the new Twitter CEO shared user metrics for the site as well as several new updates, including encrypted messaging and long form tweets. One of these new features, "Payments" was blank, which stirred up buzz that Musk has plans to introduce a cryptocurrency.

As of right now, there has been little indication that this plan will actually be put into action.

Red Sead of Crpyto

Among the top 10 largest crytocurrencies, Dogecoin was the biggest loser. However, it is not the only digital asset to have seen losses in points.

Within the past 24 hours, Bitcoin lost 1.4% and Ethereum lost 2.2%. The largest cryptocurrency is now trading at just over $17,000 while Ethereum is trading at $1,246.

Between Ethereum and Bitcoin, Ethereum was the digital currency that took the hardest beating. While Bitcoin traders only lost $9.25 million over the last bearish impulse, Ethereum’s losses were at $12.57 million.

Sam Bankman-Fried is set to testify at a Tuesday meeting with the House Financial Services Committee, where he'll talk about how his cryptocurrency exchange collapsed.

"I still do not have access to much of my data -- professional or personal," he said last week in a conversation with House Chairwoman Maxine Waters. "So there is a limit to what I will be able to say, and I won't be as helpful as I'd like. But as the committee still thinks it would be useful, I am willing to testify on the 13th."

It will also be a much anticipated week for everyone as the Federal Reserve will meet on Wednesday. The market is expecting them to raise interest rates by 50 basis points. Previous rate rises were 75 basis points but given the latest data, it looks like the Fed is slowing down its attack on inflation.

