US Congress Unimpressed By Recent Crypto Failures

Despite concerns being voiced by some pockets of politicians regarding the recent unraveling of FTX, which has cause financial loss up to $8 billion dollars and effected hundreds of thousands, the general consensus by the members of Congress is more of a wait and see stance.

“It’s not really an issue I know a whole lot about,” says Bernie Sanders, the independent US senator from Vermont.

"I really don't understand this technology," says Senator Josh Hawley, a tech-forward Republican from Missouri.

House Democratic leaders seem to be on the same page with their fellow senators when it comes to addressing crypto industry after a major collapse. House Financial Services Chair Hakeem Jeffries has said in an interview that he is not planning any particular steps to address this issue any time soon, but rather leaving it up to the Financial Services Committee.

“There are a whole host of issues that, I think, we are planning on working through, and I can imagine that the situation related to the cryptocurrency industry will be one of them moving forward,” Jeffries adds.

According to US senator Cynthia Lummis, the rise of cryptocurrencies caught Congress by surprise. The dangers that come with them were unknown as well, and it was difficult for regulators to create requirements for a currency that is constantly changing and perhaps outside their realm of knowledge.

“I think that a lot of members of Congress have assumed that the digital asset industry could be on the back burner because it’s immature,” Lummis says. “It’s growing faster than people recognize. And now with Elon Musk announcing that he might use Twitter as a payment platform, I mean, this industry is much more mature than people realize. It’s time. It’s time to regulate. It’s time to put sideboards on this.”

Lummis besides being a Republican, is also from Wyoming. A US state that has high ambitions and is currently preparing to be the "crypto capital", hence her heavy hand pushing for more support and attention to crypto.

Lummis has been out in front and calling for regulations, despite her belief that crypto should also be given some degree of liberty to innovate. Lummis has remained adamant that bumpers are needed to provide more protections for people.

“There will still be companies that deal in digital assets that will fail even after they’re regulated, but at least we’ll have consumer protections and reporting—and the most important thing there is segregating the customers’ assets from the financial institution’s assets,” Lummis says. “What happened with FTX is they were lending out customer’s assets.”

In the upcoming Summer, Lummis will be collaborating with US Senators Kirsten Gillibrand to push their agenda, Responsible Financial Innovation Act, with the goal of setting up a complete regulatory framework for digital assets.

The act seeks to create a clear difference between securities and commodities which would give the Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) more power to regulate cryptocurrencies. The act will also establish an advisory committee to help lawmakers and regulators streamline process of understanding or acting upon the continuous progress of  digital currency.

“Crypto fortunes are smoke and mirrors. Built on a lot of corruption and insider dealing,” US senator Elizabeth Warren (D-Massachusetts) says. “We’ve needed regulation for a very long time, but Congress has been frozen in acting.”

A comprehensive legislation is needed, one that is not written by authorities themselves but a collaboration effort with those that understand the tools needed and are currently being used, Warren has shared. This is important no just to stop future FTX's but also to anticipate other kinds of fraud and deception.

“We need to have a base,” Lummis says. “There has to be a floor, and then, as time goes on, if things get over-regulated and we’re sacrificing innovation because of it, we can cross that bridge when we come to it.”

