Argo Blockchain Issues No Assurance Will Not Declare Bankruptcy Amin Insufficient Funds Reports

As a way to avoid bankruptcy, crypto mining firm Argo Blockchain says it has been negotiating to sell its assets and trying to enter an equipment financing transaction.

Argo Blockchain announced on December 12th that they might not have enough funds to continue operating in a month's time. The company is currently negotiating the sale of certain assets and may file for bankruptcy if it becomes necessary. Mistakenly published materials related to their financial situation led to the December 9th suspension of trading the London Stock Exchange and Nasdaq.

Argo resumed trading on Dec. 12th on the London Stock Exchange, but there is no data recorded at the time of publication. At close on Dec. 8th, it traded at $0.69 shares on the NASDAQ and 6.70 pounds on the London Stock Exchange.

“The Company is hopeful that it will be able to consummate the transaction outside of a voluntary Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing in the United States, although there is no assurance that the Company can avoid such a filing,” Argo said. “The Company has requested that the UK Financial Conduct Authority restore the listing of its ordinary shares and that is expected to happen as soon as practicable.”

In October, the mining firm told investors that it might go cash-flow negative "in the near future, if not imminently," and was reliant on raising capital to keep its operations running. However, amid the market downturn, Argo reported selling some of its mined Bitcoin holdings to pay down a loan from Galaxy Digital; the latter had agreed to loan agreements backed by crypto collateral in 2021.

As of November 30th, Argo reported holding 126 BT and BTC equivalents. The price at the time of publishing was $17,033.

The closure of Argo would be just the latest in a string of crypto companies reporting financial difficulties amid a bear market. Many global regulators and lawmakers point to the collapse of Terraform Labs, Celsius Network, Voyager Digital, BlockFi, and most recently FTX to criticize the entire crypto market.

