Coinbase Confronts Singapore On Their Strict Crypto Regulation

Brian Armstrong, CEO of Coinbase, an American crypto exchange platform, has said that in order for Singapore to become a crypto hub they should become a more forward-looking regulator by also welcoming crypto trading.

This country has issued warnings about cryptocurrency in the past, especially due to investors who lost large chunks of their savings and investments to highly speculative and volatile trading. They have also banned marketing for these coins and exchanges in public areas and on social media.

Speaking besides Sopnendu Mohanty, Chief Fintech Officer of the Monetary Authority of Singapore at the Singapore FinTech Festival, Armstrong held a strong stance towards Singapore's strict regulation. Further stating to become a global Web3 hub, trading and self-hosted wallets should be made public to the general public.

“Those two things are incompatible in my mind, and I would like to see Singapore embrace retail trading and self-hosted wallets,” Armstrong added.

Prior to this, MAS has granted approval to Coinbase to offer their digital payment token services.

Of the 180 applicants requesting permission to operate in Singapore, only 17 in-principle approvals and licenses were handed out, further showcasing the stringent screening process by MAS. A major exchange in the crypto industry, Binance, after months of no clarity regarding their regulatory position finally withdrew their application to operate in Singapore earlier this year.

Singapore's monetary authority said in response to Armstrong, that retail investors are exposing themselves to risks they don't even know about.

“We believe that Web 3.0 is the future and what we want to do is to ensure that the money which can transact on this ecosystem is considered a safe asset, safe currency. As long as that is the direction, we are OK,” added Mohanty.

Mohanty challenged Armstrong with questions to see if he could find regulations or legislation that needed review.

“For centralized exchanges and custodians [like Coinbase], I think they should be treated just like other financial service businesses. There should be anti-money-laundering protections. There should be audits that they need to complete, no commingling of funds, appropriate disclosures to customers,” said Armstrong.

“Crypto should not be treated at a disadvantage; they should be treated equally with other financial service regulations.”

Mohanty's, Chief Fintech Officer of the Monetary Authority of Singapore further responded with an analogy.

“We, as the regulator, don’t worry about internet protocols. We only care about the customers who went to the bank. The bank is responsible to ensure that they protect their customers,” he added.

“MAS has stated quite clearly our position on where the real value in the crypto industry comes from,” in a further correspondence with the team of CNBC.

MAS's strong stance was echoed by MAS Managing Director Ravi Menon in his opening of that very same event in his opening speech, “If a crypto hub is about experimenting with programmable money, applying digital assets for use cases or tokenizing financial assets to increase efficiency and reduce risk in financial transactions, yes, we want to be a crypto hub. But if it is about trading and speculating in cryptocurrencies, that is not the kind of crypto hub we want to be.”

