FTX Fall Brings With It Rise For More Regulation

FTX single-handedly has galvanized crypto executives, researchers, analysts and politicians to act in unison for a call of more stringent regulation to the crypto sphere.

Driven by the financial scandals and failures in the industry, the need for stricter controls becoming more evident each day. Politicians, supported also by crypto executive are now ever more confident with their efforts for more regulation.

Over the past week, the European Central Bank president has stated that regulation and supervision of crypto are a must for the European Union. While in the United States, on December 13th, Chair Maxine Waters announced the House of Financial Services Committee will conduct an inquiry regarding FTX's implosion.

According to the Financial Times, United States Senator Cynthia Lummis described the FTX collapse as a wake-up call for Congress. 

Lummis further stated that if her proposed bill had been approved this year, it would have prevented the FTX collapse. Regulators would be able to see whether an exchange fell below the threshold "immediately."

In a talk at the University of Nicosia, Binance CEO Changpeng Zhao said that regulation can help the crypto industry develop and grow. He also argued that it is important for necessary protection of consumers followed by consequences for those caught breaking the law.

"Broken and irrelevant" are the words used by Stephanie Link, chief investment strategist and portfolio manager at investment adviser Hightower Advisors, on the state of the current crypto industry.

In a recent post on Twitter, Tom Dunleavy, a senior research analyst at crypto analytics company Messari gave pro-regulation sentiment. He noted that clearer regulations will “pave the way” for new investors to grow their crypto assets.

A crypto analyst recently cited a Coinbase-sponsored survey which found that only 52% of respondents considered investments in cryptocurrencies, citing concerns about the uncertain nature that crypto is in.

JP Morgan, a US-based banking and financial service company, has said that it expects "more urgency" to get a solid framework in place after the collapse of FTX.

A report from a financial advisory firm predicted that regulations will emerge from the traditional finance system. This could cause an inevitable convergence of the crypto ecosystem and the traditional finance system.

