Art Basel and Luma Foundation founded new company to give artist and galleries to benefit from resales

Artists tend to be unable to benefit from the sky-high prices of their work after an initial sale, while flippers get off easy. Galleries that support artists early in their careers can be left high and dry once they've hit it big. This is also induced by the fact it is difficult to trace chain of ownership.

Arcual is a blockchain company that wants to change how business is done. They want to fix the major problems in the art industry by generating transparency and authenticity.

Cofounded by Art Basel and the Luma Foundation, two Swiss institutions with different interests (Art Basel is a commercial enterprise and Luma Foundation is nonprofit), this blockchain ecosystem aims to service a wide range of needs for the art community.

Simply put, through the use of blockchain, a digital ledger will be created that houses smart contracts designed just for artists and dealers.

Unlike standard agreements which often resemble templates, art-specific contracts offer features that ensure the artist is compensated fairly. For example, they can define payment terms, verify provenance (the origins of the work), and establish a price for each artwork sold. Artists can also use these agreements to request how their work will be installed or stored so it's available in future virtual reality scenarios. This saves artists from having to do tedious investigative work themselves.

“If you sell a Dan Flavin without a certificate of authenticity, it’s just a bunch of light bulbs,” explained Bernadine Bröcker Wieder, Arcual’s CEO. “That’s kind of the idea. If you sell something without the artist’s digital certificate of authenticity that they minted with the gallery, then you lose the essence of the artwork. You lose the voice of the artist.”

For Bröcker Wieder, Arcual is building a “digital voice of the artist that continues to go along with the artwork for its lifetime.”

If Arcual is to succeed, their success will depend on how much of the art world will get behind them. That involves not just artists and galleries but also collectors. The beta version is now open to Art Basel galleries network but the real rollout will start once it's revealed at Art Basel Miami Beach this December.

In the future, transactions could take place within the augmented universe also known as metaverse. Artists might even be able to instantly disown a piece if the collector violates certain conditions—before it's sold. And that's just one simple example of what's possible in the real world.

Dealers also have a way to earn more revenue: royalties. For example, they can build a royalty agreement into contracts and share revenues with the artists they work with. Doing this incentivizes dealers to support younger creators. This allows them to benefit from the still booming auction market for ultra-contemporary art: in 2021 works created the year before generated $139 million at auction, ten times more than a decade earlier.

Arcual takes a cut of less than five percent on all sales, then larger cuts—five to fifteen percent—whenever an artwork is resold.

Arcual prioritizes privacy and anonymity for individuals. Unlike Ethereum and other blockchain infrastructures where information is forever recorded on databases, Arcual provides strong encryption for all your transactions. What the artwork costs, who it was sold to, or where it lives—it will remain encrypted unless specified otherwise.

Arcual's database isn't just for virtual art. It was created with real artwork in mind—in other words, actual pieces you can touch and feel. As the company's managing director, Bröcker Wieder told us they take their time to perfect every detail: "This is not an NFT platform and it’s not a traditional marketplace." The team is located in Zurich with around 20 employees.

Several other startups have created initiatives in the art industry that also use smart contracts. Examples of this include Fairchain, Artory and Verisart, which take different models to manage the sale of an artwork. Some take a flat fee on sales, while others take from a percentage from each sale.

"We hope that Arcual reveals itself to be truly artist-first", said Max Kendrick, founder of Fairchain. "We will also learn more about their commitment to protecting user data and how they navigate the inherent risks of smart contract architecture."

Representatives declined to comment on how Luma, Art Basel, and other investors would split the proceeds.

“Arcual’s technology allows us to make possible what was much-needed before, yet impossible to enforce,” Marc Spiegler, global director of Art Basel, said in a statement. “Within Art Basel, the inspiration for Arcual came from a longstanding frustration around the fact that in today’s art world, artists often don’t benefit from the growth of their own market—and neither does the gallery that supported them.”

The mega-collector behind Luma announced that the initiative is about placing the artists in the center, which is also the mission of the LUMA Foundation.

"The blockchain makes sense here," added Bröcker Wieder. "It's something that, in the long term, will benefit the entire system."

