Europe's Largest Blockchain Conference For March 2023 Almost Sold Out Despite Recent Crypto Crash

Economics are tough for many big companies this year, as some have filed for bankruptcy and others have even predicted that 'crypto is dead.' Despite the doom and gloom, the blockchain industry might yet come out stronger than before.

The largest Blockchain and Crypto conference in Eastern and Central Europe sees the latest developments as very good for the health of the industry. "It's a very painful, but necessary process. We are pushing fraud out of the community and we’re promoting transparency and setting public proof of solvency which makes it safer for everyone. As regulators failed to understand blockchain and crypto for so many years, the industry is now solving this by itself," stated Ruxandra Tataru, CEO of Crypto Expo Europe.

The focus is Education: with special guests from the biggest exchanges in the market today, Binance, KuCoin, Gemini, OKX, LBank and others. The event will openly debate the most important topic for the crypto industry today: how to make sure customer funds are always safe. Over 100 top level executives will work together in an effort to restore trust in the market in order to maximize blockchain's benefits while minimizing risks.

The bear market is unfortunate for some people, but it's also good news for other ventures. It allows us to build better products, see which solutions will work, and weed out bad influences from our industry. By 2023, cryptocurrency will be an easier and more accessible way of payment for everyone, and blockchain will be even more sustainable with reduced energy consumption by over 90%.

Crypto Expo Europe is an international event that brings together the biggest companies from the blockchain and fintech industries in Bucharest, Romania. With such a strong pool of local talent and the EU market being largely unchartered, Romania has emerged as one of the top destination for projects in this space. The country boasts of great engineers, developers and high adoption rates, making it the perfect place to build and grow any crypto-based project.

