Blockchain Intelligence Group has launched the world's first Chinese-language crypto investigations training.

The world's first Certified Cryptocurrency Investigator training course is now available in Chinese, an effort by the Blockchain Intelligence Group. A global cryptocurrency compliance and risk intelligence company with offices around the world.

With the launch of Blockchain Intelligence Group's CCI course in Chinese, there are now more individuals who can learn about cryptocurrency with advanced training. This course is highly recognized by the likes of Fortune 500 banks and global law enforcements.

Blockchain Intelligence Group, the leading data and intelligence provider for bitcoin and blockchain applications, announces that it has launched its Chinese-language training. This is an industry first and offers superior training to Chinese speakers around the world who want to help fight crypto crime.

In the wake of a cryptocurrency ban by the Chinese government, more than 19 million people are participating in cryptocurrencies despite the risk. The CCI course equips government, law enforcement agencies, banks and other organizations to investigate financial crime involving cryptocurrency. Topics such as cryptocurrency analysis, money laundering and crypto obfuscation techniques will be covered in-depth during CCI training.

Blockchain Intelligence Group's most popular product, QLUE™, is now available in Chinese. This allows companies and individuals who have passed the CCI get a trial access to QLUE. With QLUE it analyzes crypto data for better evidence collection at its most granular level. It also has built-in case file management and multi-chain graphing tools and various other supporting tools.

The CCI course includes five on-demand modules:

Crypto Investigator Module 1: Introduction to Cryptocurrency

Crypto Investigator Module 2: The Bitcoin Trail

Crypto Investigator Module 3: Cryptocurrency and the criminal element

Crypto Investigator Module 4: The Dark Web

Crypto Investigator Module 5: Blockchain Forensics

