Russian Crypto Exchange Aggregator is allowed to resume their services in Uzbekistan

An Uzbekistan based cryptocurrency watchdog restored access to Bestchange.ru, an aggregator trading platform well-known in the region. The move comes as a surprise as earlier this year, the regulator had blocked a number of coin trading platforms like Binance.

Bestchange.ru, a popular exchange aggregator based in Russia has had their restrictions to operate in Uzbekistan lifted. This was a direct act by Uzbekistan’s National Agency of Perspective Projects (NAPP) whom just earlier this year issued this ban.

The Digital Rights Center law firm has made a public statement they were able to unblock the crypto trading platform operations through skills of their team of legal experts. These same legal experts specialize in providing legal assistance to internet users and businesses. 

Uzbekistan’s National Agency of Perspective Projects (NAPP) recent measures last August have restricted even large crypto trading websites, including Binance and FTX. A move that was supported by the presidential administration in Tashkent.

Uzbekistan's President, Shavkat Mirziyoyev himself issued a presidential decree back in 2018, which states that starting from Jan. 1, 2023, only through local providers are residents and businesses originating from Uzbekistan allowed to buy and sell crypto assets.

Further stated by the DRC this decree has taken place even before the publicly known date. Effectively forcing Uzbekistan's to use the government controlled and the 
 only licensed exchange in the country called Uznex.

NAPP's management through the numerous appeals by DRC, eventually heard their arguments and agreed that Bestchange.ru main operations of performing as a monitoring website, is an exception and therefore should be allowed to once again operate in Uzbekistan.

Uzbekistan's president has issued another decree that would be expanding the regulatory framework for various activities in the cryptocurrency industry. Further adoption that the government has implemented are related to regulations on miner and monthly fees for crypto based companies.

