Indonesia is considering the use of blockchain to power their carbon trading scheme.

The Indonesia Stock Exchange (IDX) has signed a memorandum with Metaverse Green Exchange (MVGX). MVGX specializes in digital exchange technology, and this collaboration centers around IDX’s emissions trading scheme that will launch in 2025. MVGX’s job is to help IDX build an environmental registry and exchange using blockchain as their infrastructure layer.

The double counting problem is a common issue that can happen when two entities or one entity and a country both claim the same climate action. Blockchain eliminates this problem because it clearly defines who owns the credits, says Bo Bai, the executive chairman and co-founder of MVGX. Founded in 2018, MVGX currently is licensed by Singapore's finance authority to provide securities and custodial services. They offer SaaS solutions so companies can commercialize carbon credits in overseas markets.

Bai elaborates, “The registration will be able to create an immutable record of the creation and ownership of the credit, as well as a tamper-proof record of the performance of the green project with which the carbon credit is associated.” It will run on Ethereum.

Some people believe that blockchain could play an important role in simplifying the process of public carbon trading. However, it doesn’t address incentive issues around offsetting or making sure that emissions  reductions are high-quality and won't expire over time.

The use of cryptocurrencies in the carbon trading world is often met with skepticism. Recently, startups focused on tokenizing carbon credits have soared in popularity because they've been able to attract more investors into the carbon exchange market. One of the buzziest projects is Toucan, which began by converting Verra's retired credits into tradable tokens back in late 2017. This past May, Verra banned the conversion of retired credits into cryptocurrencies "on the basis that retirees are widely understood as to refer to consuming a credit's environmental benefits."

