The English Premier League has filed trademark applications that are related to NFTs and the metaverse.

A popular organization in the United Kingdom, the English Premier League (EPL), is soon joining the virtual world with two filings before the United States Patent and Trademark Office.

A licensed trademark attorney named Michael Kondoudis revealed the Premier League's move into the metaverse on his Twitter account. The application includes both the league's name and "lion head" logo, as well as the "loving cup trophy" logo.

The trademark filing was made on June 1, 2022, and the USPTO confirmed the necessary requirements had been met.

The football league has the intention to venture into other industries like non-fungible tokens, cryptocurrencies, digital tokens, virtual trading cards and art, online trading, digital collectibles, and various sports wear.

And just like the Premier League, FIFA has filed for a similar trademark application. Kondoudis mentions that more sports entities entering the metaverse is likely to happen in the next 12 months.

According to the lawyer, the shift is a realization from it's still early development that sporting brands need protection in this growing and uncertain metaverse.

Manchester City have started making inroads into the metaverse. The Premier League champions have started a football stadium in the metaverse, which is being constructed with the help of Sony's virtual reality specialists.

On March 16th, Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) filed trademark applications for a variety of items, including non-fungible tokens, wallets, and managing cryptocurrency transactions. They also filed for multimedia; crypto wallets; managing cryptocurrency transactions; virtual clothing; sports gear; and electronics.

