Square Enix leveraging blockchain to continue increasing their revenue and profitability

Square Enix is growing more aware of the prominence blockchain technology in correlation with their company's growth strategy.

Square Enix latest financials show a drop in overall sales but at the same time the MMORPG Final Fantasy 14 continues to enjoy a growing profit.

This particular fact has actually lighted up focus on the effects and how to further leverage blockchain technology

The company is planning to broader to search for more new opportunities for expansion. This includes new domains and strengthening its IP ecosystem as well as improving its business structures for the changing digital world.

The newly-created domain aims to promote blockchain games and entertainment.

Focus was given to Symbiogenesis, featuring the first sale of NFT collectible art based on a new intellectual property. The game model is based on the choices of their players which will determine the general arc of their personal stories.

After partnering with the Oasys blockchain, the company further announced its plans for Final Fantasy NFTs.

Even more exciting plans include a litany of games and metaverses such as ; Shi-San-Sei Million Arthur 10th anniversary NFTs, investments in FinTech platform Zebedee built on Bitcoin, medieval online strategy game Blocklords, and NFT trading card game Cross The Ages, blockchain game developer Animoca Brands, and decentralized metaverse The Sandbox.

Besides that, Square Enix has also been collaborating with Blacknut and Ubitus to provide cloud gaming services. In the case of Ubitus, they have been working together with Capcom for a Switch version of Resident Evil Village.

Square Enix's president Yosuke Matsuda lately stated that blockchain and cloud technology would become a "major trend" in gaming.

Although Final Fantasy 16 is set to release in the next fiscal year, and there is no specific mention of the game if its on the companies midterm business strategy.

Square Enix has had a tough year so far. For the first six months of this fiscal year, net sales were down 3.3% and operating income dropped by 10.7%.

Because of their poor performance, Square Enix's sales have decreased. Even though they have released various new titles such as Live A Live, PowerWash Simulator, Valkyrie Elysium, and Star Ocean: The Divine Force.

Though paying subscription numbers for Final Fantasy 14 has increased, where one in four digital entertainment sales now come from MMO games.

