Andiami, the potentially new player in blockchain that utilizes gaming cubes

With the new decentralized project, Andiamo, Anthony Di Iorio is opening up a new frontier. The Toronto native and Ethereum co-founder first vaulted into cryptocurrency through Ethereum. Through this he has amass vast wealth and looks to take a stab Web3 with his own blockchain vision.

Anthony Di Iorio took to stage at the W3B Summit in Toronto to publicly unveil his brainchild called Andiami. Andiami itself derives from Italian which translated in English would mean "Lets Go Together." Among the announcement, Anthony has mentioned this is a multiyear project that involves various phases. One of those phases will involve choosing early participants to receive some form of gaming cubes which in total will number 3000 pieces. Theses cubes will play a critical role in his vision for this blockchain project.

With the upcoming release of the Cubes, Di Iorio is attempting to solve what he believes are two of the biggest problems currently holding back Web3: The paradox of centralized decentralization and the persistence of Web2 business models.

Ethereum, which is nominally supposed to be free of any central authority, is increasingly being decentralized. Alchemly and Infura are the two big companies that supply a lot of the infrastructure needed for people to interact with this blockchain. Coinbase and Lido are responsible for validating transactions on Ethereum's new proof-of-stake system. Meanwhile, these big players are relying on the centralized servers from Web2 giants such as Amazon and Google for their operation.

Di Iorio believes solving this issue and empowering individuals is a matter of hardware—specifically, the Cubes. The Cubes are designed to store 12 terabytes of data, interact with any major blockchain, and verify transactions.

Independent nodes reach consensus with other nodes on the Bitcoin blockchain. It's difficult for user-controlled internet to exist without users being able to run a full node onto their own server

In order to further promote decentralization, Andiami will only ask that you provide a first name. He says that he'll then destroy the information so as to preserve your anonymity.

Di Iorio has created a modular kit for the Cube with prices that start at $300 and go up to $5,000. These cheaper kits are intended for low-income participants. The goal of this venture is to cut out the traditional venture capitalists in this space, who have been a big contributor to centralization.

Andiami puts a heavy gaming element into the product, which Di Iorio is no stranger to. Those who sign up for a Cube first get "Quest for Liberty" kit that requires them to solve a series of physical and digital puzzles in order to receive "Digital Life Tokens."

The Andiami Tokens will be used in the economy of a future node-sharing protocol. Those who will connect to one another via the process will receive rewards as compensation for hosting and sharing devices on the blockchain.

The startup announced that they will initially offer the tokens in the form of Layer 2 solutions built on top of Ethereum.

Andiami's physical authentication chip is called the "NFPs," which stands for "Non-Fungible Phygitals." They'll come with a physical chip that helps authenticate ownership and identity, giving you peace of mind.

This is a huge project that needs time and continued development. For this reason, Di Iorio has given himself a long timeline, with the tokens slated for distribution in 2023 and Cubes not arriving until 2024.

