Solana Blockchain Controlled by Alameda Research?

BitBoy, a crypto influencer has released controversial claims that Solana Blockchain has been controlled by Alameda Research to an extent that the latter played a role in Solana's recent outage.

As the Solana Blockchain ecosystem continues to face intense scrutiny for alleged deep ties to FTX and Alameda Research, further FUD news is fueling speculations with negative effects. Binance recently has announced it would remove trading pairs for Serum token, a token built on Solana. FTX catastrophe was the main catalyst of the most recent huge plunge of value in Solana of more than 50%. As FTX continues it's domino of destruction, Solana's price is teetering in the balance.

Solana in the hands of Alameda Research?

BitBoy's recent tweet has caused controversy through his statement that transactions by Alameda Research was processed during Solana's outage. In another of his tweet, he has even brazenly suggested for Solana holders to exit while they can. Furthermore, BitBoy has speculated that Alameda Research laundered money and pushed for transactions to be executed during the halt. FTX's heavy investments in Solana is definitely the sole perpetrator of it's plunge in valuation, BitBoy mentions.

These inflammatory speculations was directly rebutted by Solana's head of communication, Austin Federa, who mentions that Solana does not operate as per BitBoy's claims. Amidst all these FUD news around Solana, their current price is hovering around $14.

Solana On and Off

In the past, the Solana blockchain faced network outages due to a misconfiguration in a single node which happen on the 1st of October of this year. This was superseded by another outage that was attributed to a support structure issue. During these outages, all transactions were halted for several hours.

BitBoy recently has been reported visiting the Bahama's with the intent to locate Sam Bankman-Fried and to conduct a discussions of the recent events involving FTX. It is indicated BitBoy has indeed located the FTX founder whereabouts.

