Binance Takes a U-turn and has changed their buying stance of FTX

Binance representatives have share their concerns to the public regarding foundational issues that to them is outside the capability of Binance to overcome.

The deal to acquire the failing FTX competitor is now officially off the the table according to the words of a Binance spokesperson

Based on their website, CoinDesk received correspondence from one of the parties involved in the potential acquisition of FTX.com, stating that due to corporate due diligence and latest news reports alleging mishandled funds and agency investigations, they have decided not to move forward with the deal.

"In the beginning, our hope was to be able to support FTX’s customers to provide liquidity, but the issues are beyond our control or ability to help. Every time a major player in an industry fails, retail consumers will suffer. We have seen over the last several years that the crypto ecosystem is becoming more resilient and we believe in time that outliers that misuse user funds will be weeded out by the free market.

"As regulatory frameworks are developed and as the industry continues to evolve toward greater decentralization, the ecosystem will grow stronger," the spokesperson added.

The last few days has been a series of headlining events for the crypto industry. Some perhaps might hope with this recent update regarding the FTX saga be the culmination of it. Binance's stance to back out of acquiring FTX was a series of events that can be traced back to Binance selling all their holdings of FTT.

FTT, which was already down in the days leading up to that news, dropped an additional 32% when the news of Binance pulling out of its deal came out. The new price was around $2.41.

