FIFA's departure with EA leads to Blockchain games

It was announced today that the first games to use FIFA branding following the end of their partnership with EA will be Web 3.0 blockchain titles.

The release of four Web 3.0 games coincides with the FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, all of which make use of blockchain tech in some way.

A press release by FIFA states that “Gaming and esports are some of the fastest-growing opportunities for FIFA as it continues to expand into new digital spaces, platforms, and games that already welcome football fans.”

The new gaming integrations, all of which are designed with web 3.0 and the future of digital engagement in mind, are playable around the tournament and each have a unique twist on the globe's biggest football tournament.

AI League: FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 Edition is the first of four games  which is developed by Altered State Machine. It is "4-on-4 casual football game, played between AI-controlled characters with player input at fun and tactical moments".

There is a 10-week prediction component in place as well as special prizes for those who correctly predict the outcome of games. These special prizes can take shape in both digital and physical forms.

Players who play the prediction game will earn "four unique collectibles" that become their AI-controlled players in the FIFA World Cup AI League.

The second is FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022, which will open in the Upland Metaverse, a collaboration between Uplandme and FIFA. Upland is a blockchain-based metaverse where players buy and sell virtual properties.

With this collaboration comes a virtual world experience. Players can collect "official FIFA World Cup digital assets, including legendary video highlights of the tournament" and also experience travel to Lusail Stadium where there are various digital collectibles for sale.

The third, FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 on Phygtl, is a collaborative partnership to produce a "fan engagement mobile application."

Through this game fans can augment a golden-globe-football from the palm of their hands and handpicked FIFA World Cup pictures and video moments by owning a limited fragment of it.

This is a digital representation of eternal fandom created by FIFA.

The fourth game announced was Matchday Challenge: FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022 Edition. It's a highly-engaging casual social prediction game based on football cards.

After nearly three decades of a fruitful partnership, the FIFA team recently parted ways with EA. FIFA 23 will be the last time that FIFA branding is associated with any future EA Sports games.

In July 2023, EA will be rebranding its series as the EA Sports FC.

“The FIFA name is the only global, original title. FIFA 23, FIFA 24, FIFA 25 and FIFA 26, and so on – the constant is the FIFA name and it will remain forever and remain THE BEST.”

With the split from EA, FIFA is revamping its approach to the development of video games. With the help of third-party studios and publishers, FIFA will be able to develop video games with more content and a wider range of themed features for fans in advance of FIFA World Cup Qatar 2022.

