Solana hit by FTX as nearly $800M SOL Tokens are indicated set to be unstaked

$800M SOL Token is around 15% of the total circulating supply of Solana's token.

Sam Bankman-Fried's FTX crypto exchange and Alameda Research trading firm's epic crash is making waves in the cryptocurrency market. Some investors are so worried that they have demanded their tokens back from the company, citing nervousness as their reasoning.

Multiple sources reported within this week that Alameda might be forced to sell some of its SOL Tokens after fears grew of a liquidity crisis. Subsequently SOL Token has plummeted in response, with people trying to get ahead of the selling pressure.

Stakes are getting higher as apparently there are Solana validators who provide security to the blockchain are set to unlock nearly $800 million worth of their SOL holdings as their token lock-in period approaches later this day.

There's analyst speculation that investors could dump SOL coins once this suggested plan is put in motion. The price recently plunged 42% to less than $14.

“A reduction in the amount of SOL staked might indicate that investors are looking to sell all or part of their position,” Sean Farrell, head of digital asset strategy at research firm FundStrat wrote in a note on Tuesday evening following the bailout news. “Due to these factors, we think it is wise to reduce exposure to Solana (SOL) in the immediate term.”

55 million SOL tokens, worth around $776 million, are scheduled to unlock later today.

Approximately 76% of the total circulating supply have been staked on the blockchain. The upcoming epoch allows 15% of the total circulating supply to be unlocked.

Researchers at crypto data firm Kaiko have discovered that SOL is the second-largest holding of Alameda and also significant holders of tokens of SOL such as MAPS and OXY. MAPS was down 20% to $0.1, and OXY was down 14% to $0.03 according to CoinGecko.

Solana's version of epoch is the time when staking rewards are earn and then distributed. Those who stake can choose to continue to stake or to unlock their tokens when the epoch ends.

Binance not choosing to acquire FTX has only accelerated the already faltering Solana's price drop. CoinDesk has reported that Alameda's balance sheet showed that they held $292 million of unlocked SOL, $863 million of locked SOL, and $41 million of SOL collateral.

