Christie's is piloting blockchain protection with the sale of a $5 million Rolex Daytona

One of the most important things in this day and age is establishing trust. Christie's is piloting the use of digitally incorruptible certificates, which will be stored on blockchain technology, to store the details of a $3-5 million dollar Rolex Daytona that goes up for sale at next week's Rare Watches auction in Geneva. The watch was one of only three ever created and it would make a great purchase for anyone looking for an excellent timepiece!

The blockchain is one of the most secure technologies. Watch Certificate will be impossible to forge. Once the auction ends, it will then be assigned to its new owner, together with Daytona.

"The use of a Watch Certificate adds value for the current owner and future buyer," says Rémi Guillemin, Head of Watches and Wristwatches Department at Christie’s Geneva. The transparency that comes with the certification process is exactly what today's watch collectors want.

“We provide a simple and convenient way to provide customers with the most trustworthy certification on the market.” says Guillaume Kuntz, co-founder of Watch Certificate.

There are a number of benefits that come with owning a Watch Certificate. These benefits include:

Request the update of the value of the watch

Transfer the property in case of sale

Obtain assistance in the event of theft (blacklisting and sharing of serial numbers with the watch brand, auction houses and online resale platforms)

Take out additional insurance against theft with aggression, anywhere in the world because Watch Certificate is recognized by insurance companies and authorities.

