Kinesis Money Launches Virtual Crypto Card

Kinesis Money, the digital asset utility platform, launched the Kinesis Virtual Card, enabling the global community to spend their crypto holdings in real-time, with instant fiat conversion, anywhere in the world.

Powered by BAANX, the Kinesis Virtual Card  introduces cryptocurrency as a monetary alternative to over 1 billion people in 61 countries across Latin America, Europe, the UK, Canada, and Oceania.  Operated through the Mastercard payment network, the Kinesis card allows crypto holders to instantly sell their digital assets and use the proceeds to transact at 80 million locations globally.

With inflation soaring worldwide, people are seeking alternatives to devaluing fiat currency. Accessible via mobile in minutes, the Kinesis Virtual Card brings the everyday utility of cryptocurrency to those wishing to exit faltering economic systems. Its target market includes Argentina, which is expected to hit 100% inflation by the end of 2023.

The card supports 10 leading digital assets including Bitcoin (BTC), Ethereum (ETH), USDC, and Kinesis’ native gold and silver-backed stablecoins, KAU and KAG. Additionally, through Kinesis’ usage-based yield system, KAU and KAG spenders earn a proportionate 10% share of all transaction fee revenue paid back at the end of each month.

Kinesis will continue to roll out its card program globally, with a US-specific virtual and physical card program next in line. The Kinesis Virtual Card brings newfound utility to digital assets, equipping the global community with a means to break away from the inflation-driven issues facing traditional currencies.
