Blockchain executives share their insights after the acquisition of Twitter by Elon Musk.

Know as the platform for news, updates marketing, and communication tool for developers of all types of communities in the crypto sphere, speculation across the industries leaders has been rampant regarding the future of Twitter in Elon's leadership.

The CEO of popular cryptocurrency exchange Binance, CZ Zhao, said he first wanted to see Twitter accept crypto payments at the Web Summit in Lisbon. In turn, he also cited free speech and the monetization potential of the platform as the key reasons why he choose to invest $500 million into the acquisition.

Hayden Adams and Sam Bankman-Fried, also key stakeholders shares their concern about the centralized structure of Twitter. Adams said, "Twitter spam is only a problem because it remains centralized to one company. They could just open up their APIs and empower developers to build on top, and other people would fix the problem for them."

Vitalik Buterin, joined the conversation by expressing his concerns. A blanket subscription fee would weaken the anti-spam features of Twitter Blue. "Pay $8/month and call yourself whatever," he wrote. "But if there's more actual verification, the results are very different." He explained the verification system prior acquisition was far more exclusive than the monthly subscription proposal and further states "ideally, though, verification would be charged at cost and separate from other premium services."

In order to reduce "anonymous scams" on the platform, Buterin suggests that mechanisms such as zero-knowledge identity checks and individual account quality scores would be helpful. "Ideal solution: social network-based localized trust instead of global scores," he wrote.

