Kinesis Money has just launched a new virtual cryptocurrency card

Now, you can convert your cryptocurrency into fiat and use it anywhere. Kinesis Money is adding the Kinesis Virtual Card to their digital asset utility ecosystem, which enables global users to spend their crypto holdings with an instant conversion to local fiat currency anywhere in the world.

BAANX, the provider behind Kinesis Virtual Card, is offering 1 billion people in 61 countries a new way to transact - using cryptocurrency and their Kinesis card. The card operates through the Mastercard payment network, and allows you to trade your digital assets for those in the form of traditional currency. The card is accepted at over 80 million locations globally.

As inflation skyrockets, people are desperately seeking an alternative to the faltering fiat currency. With Kinesis, users can access through their mobile various virtual currencies in minutes. Kinesis Virtual Cards targets people living in Argentina, who may experience 100% inflation rate by the end of 2023.

The Kinesis card supports various digital assets, including Bitcoin, Ethereum and Kinesis' stable coins. Through their system, spenders of the stablecoins are rewarded in proportion to their purchases by receiving a share of all transaction fee revenue at the end of the month.

Kinesis is slated to launch Kinesis Pro, a highly-secure and liquid crypto trading platform with a variety of cryptocurrencies pair. The launch of this platform will make it even easier for people to spend their cryptocurrencies they earn through the Kinesis Virtual Card.

Kinesis will continue to work towards unleashing their cards globally, starting with North America. The Kinesis Virtual Card is a groundbreaking way of keeping digital assets safe and secure. With this card, the digital community can break away from traditional currencies which are constantly being devalued due to inflation.

