DMCC and South Korea to strengthen ties in the fields of blockchain and Web3

The Dubai Multi Commodities Center (DMCC) together with the Government of Dubai Authority are strengthening its ties with South Korea's blockchain ecosystem to support the global development and adoption of blockchain technologies. 

DMCC signed an agreement with Busan Metropolitan City where they'll work together to create a better connection between the blockchain ecosystems in both cities by hosting regular events and connecting crypto, blockchain and web3 businesses between both cities.

DMCC while in Korea attended various blockchain events such as Blockchain Week Busan and Korea-International Roundtable for Crypto Exchanges. Additional to that they also held numerous meetings with leading figures on topics such as blockchain.

DMCC is committed to building an interconnected ecosystem that evolves with the blockchain industry. Through DMCC's Crypto Centre and agreements with Busan, they are promoting the blockchain industry to grow globally.

The DMCC Crypto Centre is the largest blockchain and web3 hub in the Middle East, with over 450 members operating in every aspect. Pioneering new possibilities in decentralised finance to developing new metaverse experiences.

According to the Mayor of Busan, Park Heong-joon, their city has great potential to be a regional hub for blockchain development.

Beyond blockchain, DMCC's roadshow also sought to establish closer relations with the public and private sector in South Korea in order to strengthen trade between the two countries. In particular, they want to increase the trade of physical commodities like tea and coffee.

