Metaverse attended Japan Annual Tech Show.

At Japan's most recent electronics show, companies from across the world showcased their next-generation business tools related to the metaverse. The virtual world is where people work, shop, and socialize.

The company, Meta Platforms Inc., which owns the Facebook social media service, is revealing its new Horizon Workrooms metaverse service in which participants wear virtual reality headsets to meet with other participants in various virtual settings.

The company has changed its name in recent months to reflect an increased focus on the Metaverse. The Metaverse is not just for games and entertainment anymore.

There is a lot of business potential in the metaverse, commented Taeko Morimura, head of communications for the company's Japan office. Taeko shares hope many people get to experience our product and how it can be used for business purposes.

One Japanese printing company has unveiled an amazing new showroom in the metaverse. People can look at different car and house colors, plus see materials like textiles and leathers in detail, as if they were in a real-life showroom.

The head of Toppan's metaverse business division, Takashi Suzuki, said that they have a competitive advantage in the showroom industry because they've compiled and amassed product data from making product catalogs for various firms.

Tokyo-based Bascule Inc. has created a new way for people to take virtual reality tours of the International Space Station. The two companies collaborated with the Japan Aerospace Exploration Agency to create recreated content that is compatible with VR headsets.

This year's event is the largest one to date, with 562 participating companies and organizations. This includes 146 from 27 different countries and regions.

