The use of blockchain technology can reduce corruption and transform the Nigerian economy.

Nigeria's Country Ambassador of Impact Market, Kingsley Godwin, has said opportunities await in blockchain technology and with its use can be transformational for Nigeria.

He stated that Nigeria's Blockchain has potential to expand the country's Gross Domestic Products to $29 billion by 2030.

It was reported on Wednesday during an empowerment summit entitled "Leveraging Blockchain Technology for Human Empowerment and Economic Development in Nigeria" that these words were uttered by Godwin.

He continues by saying, “There are so many other ways to leverage blockchain for human empowerment and economic development such as land titling, providing identity services, improving the transparency of donations, reducing fraud and corruption, and transforming governance systems.

Blockchain technology has been said to act as a catalyst for economic growth in Nigeria. There is evidence that by 2030, the blockchain industry can create $29bn worth of Nigeria's Gross Domestic Product, which would be a significant contribution in enabling Nigeria to meet its Sustainable Development Goals: Poverty Reduction, Building an Inclusive Economy, Caring for the Health and Well-Being of Nigerian Citizens, Providing Better Education Opportunities and Improving Cross-Border Trade.

He urged the government to fully embrace blockchain technology and reap the benefits of these opportunities.

Godwin further adds, “We, therefore, charge the government and its regulatory stakeholders’ bodies to embrace blockchain technology and explore the potential of this emerging technology. Decisive steps must be taken to explore the benefits of blockchain, or else we risk being left behind by other nations who are taking various risk-based approaches to regulate blockchain while giving room for the technology to thrive.“

