The Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) is guiding Singapore to become a global hub for adoption of blockchain in finance and not speculative crypto trading.

Ravi Menon, the Managing Director of the Monetary Authority of Singapore, has stated that the doors are open for digital assets but are closed for speculating on cryptocurrencies.

Speaking at the opening of the Singapore Fintech Festival 2022, Menon said, "If a crypto hub is about experimenting with programmable money and applying digital assets for use cases or tokenizing financial assets to increase efficiency in financial transactions, then yes, we want to be a crypto hub."

DBS Bank is testing out Singapore's first digital money live pilot. It's a program that enables merchants to program and self-execute the distribution of government vouchers, making it easy for them to process transactions.

As one of Asia's leading financial centers, Singapore has ambitions to become a global crypto hub. Though are very not keen for it to be known as a safe haven for speculative and highly risky crypto trading. This was fueled by the numerous reports of investors losing all their savings. The recent collapse of Terra's Luna has even spurred the government to banned crypto advertising in public areas and social media in January 2021.

Even though Singapore has a strong negative stance on speculative acts, the country has shown approval for new blockchain based technologies. One of these projects is Project Ubin. This successful project comprised an experiment using blockchain for the clearing and settlement of payments and securities.

Another product that has just completed its first industry pilot is Project Guardian, which involved DBS Bank, JPMorgan and SBI Digital Assets Holdings conducting transactions in tokenized foreign exchange and government bonds.

The MAS is working with two new initiatives: one in trade finance with Standard Chartered Bank that is exploring the issuance of tokens related to trade, and another in wealth management with HSBC and UOB that is focusing on native digital product issuance.

Menon also announced in his speech that MAS is creating Project Ubin+ to help encourage cross-border transactions using wholesale Central Bank Digital Currencies across the globe.

Project Ubin is a Singaporean initiative that was first started in 2016. The early phases of the project has launched, marking the beginning of blockchain-based payments clearing and settlement by DBS Bank, JPMorgan and Temasek.

