Korean blockchain game company Wemade receives investment form Microsoft.

The parent company of Microsoft's Xbox has joined the list of new investors in Wemade, raising funding to $46 million.

It's not clear how much of this investment came from Microsoft, but Wemade mentions that it successfully attracted new capital from a foreign investor.

Wemade is a game developer, and one of their most popular games is Legend of Mir. Wemade has been around since 2000 and continues to release PC and mobile MMORPGs.

According to their website, their game Mir 4 is the world's first well-made blockchain game. However, the company did not provide any metrics that determine the quality of the game.

Wemade recently launched its new Wemix 3.0 blockchain mainnet. The platform-driven service-oriented mega ecosystem is now fully developed and deployed, enabling cryptocurrency transactions to be broadcasted and verified for recording on the blockchain network itself.

The team also has its own decentralized NFT auction site, and plans to introduce an economy platform that supports NFTs and DAOs.

It’s unclear how Microsoft’s investment in Wemade fits into its own strategy. However, it doesn’t seem likely that this will lead to blockchain or NFT technology being included in its games any time soon.

In  August, Microsoft Head of Gaming Phil Spencer spoke about the dangers of injecting NFT into gaming too deeply for it may lead to creating micro-laborers. In particular, he worried that it "makes games feel more exploitative than about entertainment."

