Connecting physical devices to the metaverse through a new blockchain

According to Gartner, enterprises will experiment with the metaverse in order to connect, engage, and incentivize their human and machine customers. The market value of this technology over the next seven years is likely to be massive. McKinsey estimates it will reach $5 trillion by 2030.

Experts say there are five underlying technologies that will power immersive virtual worlds: 5G, AR, VR, AI and blockchain. Many companies are on the quest to build into that tech stack anticipating the predicted highly lucrative future market.

A product of one such company IoTeX, a decentralized blockchain that enables human-machine interactions. At the heart of the platform is the company MachineFi Lab, which today announced it released W3bstream "a blockchain-agnostic infrastructure with the power to disrupt the machine economy where innovation has stayed stagnant until now," according to the company press release.

MachineFi Lab is uniquely positioned to help connect the metaverse with real-life devices. W3bstream connects the real world to Web3, serving as an open, decentralized, off-chain computing infrastructure that sits between blockchain and smart devices.

Built on the blockchain

MachineFi Lab is harnessing the power of blockchain technologies and providing a platform that can connect billions of IoT devices in a unified machine network. The lab will provide developers with the tools to connect their physical products with Web3 infrastructure so they can monetize and distribute their products across continents.

W3bstream works in the best interest of large companies, Web2 businesses, and smart device makers who incorporate their technologies. Through this incorporation these entities can reduce development timelines by at least 50%, and it allows anyone to unlock the $12.6 trillion reward economy for millions of people globally.

HealthBlocks is a Web3 health app that encourages users to be successful in leading a healthier lifestyles. A perfect example on how W3bstream can benefit the developers and users in symbiotic relationship.

Technology twins: IoT and the metaverse

In this sense, the IoT software platform is already a part of the metaverse since it supports analysis and interaction with the physical world. This can be seen as an interface with 3D UI that allows users to control device settings.

With the competition from both Hyperledger and Azure Blockchain Workbench, W3bstream understands that it needs to be different by creating a framework that can "bind users with their smart devices" and will rely on a decentralized protocol to reach a consensus regarding what has happened in the physical world and [to] produce proofs that trigger token reward distribution to users in Web3.

“The W3bstream rollout is planned in four stages, starting with the release of V1.0, when all development tools become available, including software development kits (SDKs) and open-source repositories for developers of all skill levels. It is also when developers and businesses can configure and deploy W3bstream nodes to build MachineFi dApps using the Web Assembly (WASM) language,” says Dr Raullen Chai, founder and CEO at MachineFi Lab..

The lab has recently been backed by investors including Samsung NEXT, Jump Crypto, Draper Dragon, Xoogler Ventures, IOSG, Wemade and Escape Velocity. Each of the companies participated in the latest MachineFi funding round.

