Blockchain technology has the potential to revolutionize dentistry.

Blockchain technology development in Dentistry currently is limited to providing convenience to patients and dentists in the form of payments in cryptocurrency. Transactions of all sorts between and around the parties involve in this industry is instantly resolved. A benefit that is also received by the general public.

For patients who need to cover unexpected medical expenses, paying in cryptocurrency is a simple and efficient way of getting the financial support they need. Patient payments can be sent anywhere in the world, eliminating bank charges and transaction time. Cryptocurrencies eliminate the need to wait several days for a payment to clear, which helps avoid potential issues with having your card declined or a return of funds.

The Data Protection Act obligates dental practices to protect patient data. Current methods of protection include the industry standard encryption technology, but as technology and techniques advanced lies the risk of breach to these silos of medical data.

With blockchain, through a global ecosystem of nodes and cryptography, data tampering and breach will therefore become folds more difficult to happened.

The current practice involves patient personal data becoming siloed in your appointed doctor or hospital through a system of recorded data that is centralized to private server. It is proven difficult for patients who want to submit X-rays or dental records to another practice since the data is not owned by the patient themselves.

In the dental industry, there are hundreds of different types of software. This makes it difficult for dental practices to transfer records from one business to another without a lot of outdated administrative work. Blockchain technology is changing this by shifting custody of dental data from the dentist practice to the patient.

The goal of this is to allow patients to easily access dental records through secure app-based systems. This will eventually lead to better patient outcomes.

