DBS has launched Singapore's first programmable money live pilot for government vouchers.

DBS announced a partnership with Open Government Products (OGP) to launch a live pilot program. This is an exciting moment for our industry, as the Monetary Authority of Singapore will develop the technology and competencies necessary to introduce tokenized SGDs into the business world. The project is called Project Orchid, and it's part of a larger effort that aims to transform our cashless society.

The PBM vouchers will be created by DSGD issued by DBS. These will have programmable capabilities enabled by OGP, which means that issuers can distribute and self-execute the distribution of vouchers to targeted recipients.

Business owners who have retail locations and sell products or services through having customers purchase vouchers will now be able to enjoy instant settlement, payments, and collections with their banks. This means you can reduce administrative tasks on your backend as well as increase cashflow. The current process takes one to two days of processing time before you see the money credited into your bank account.

The live pilot with Open Government Products is designed for organizations that work with CDCs and vouchers. The vouchers are now digital, so you may need to administer them from your backend system. With PBM vouchers, merchants can get instant payment and stop doing time-consuming reconciliations on the backend.

The F&B industry in Singapore is an excellent place to start because there are 28,000 coffee shops, hawker centers, and restaurants within the country that could benefit from this pilot program.

