NFTBANK Partners with MetaMask to Offer it's users to see their NFT's value

The NFTBank is a tool that enables the management of your digital assets and their valuation, helping you make informed decisions about your NFT portfolio.

Metamask is excited to announce their new NFT portfolio product, which better informs its users about their holdings - and the value of those holdings.

Metamask has selected NFTBank to provide pricing information for over 5000 of its supported NFT collectibles.

Metamask will use NFTBank's price estimates as a standard when viewing the value of an individual’s NFT portfolio in their wallet.

The NFT platform has been providing their services to a number of large-scale companies within the ecosystem, such as Chainlink and Unlockd Finance.

NFTBank has estimates for over 5,000 different NFT collections.

The complex nature of NFT pricing is the result various factors on such is too few sales data from which to calculate accurate settlement prices. Likewise, infrastructure for NFT holders is still lagging in comparison to ERC-20 tokens. That's why NFTBank wants to change this.

NFTBank's advanced machine learning-based algorithm provides statistical estimates for individual NFTs. By combining several different metrics, they are able to compute a single price value for any given NFT in a collection.

Appropriately priced NFTs are crucial for it's growth.

Daniel Kim, the CEO of NFTBank, said, “In a rapidly evolving industry where so many are searching for clear answers, the need for understanding appropriate prices has become ever more important. Our data on NFTs will help Metamask’s users make informed decisions about their portfolios.”

